
<html>
<body>
"The separation of Church and State shall be inviolable." - 1987 Constitution of the Philippines, Article II, Section 6

"No law shall be made respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. 
The free exercise and enjoyment of religious profession and worship, without discrimination or preference, shall forever be allowed. 
No religious test shall be required for the exercise of civil or political rights."
- Article III, Section 5

Religious Tolerance in the Philippines

Around 80% of the Philippine population consists of Roman Catholics, with the rest belonging to either Islam, or other denominations of Christianity.<a href = "https://psa.gov.ph/sites/default/files/2015%20PSY%20PDF.pdf#56" > * </a>

Religious Tolerance, as a social issue, is not as prominent or impactful in most of the country (with a few exceptions) as most denominations have enough overlapping beliefs to intermingle cordially, or have members keeping mostly to themselves and other members of their religious communities.

Bakakeng Norte is no exception. It is a barangay in Baguio City, marked by the Holy Family Parish Church, a catholic church within walking distance of the barangay hall.

The majority of the barangay's locals may be catholic, but some other, shorter-term residents may not be. Bakakeng Norte is also home to some students of St. Louis University, a Catholic institution that welcomes students of any and all beliefs and traditions.

To that end, tolerance or acceptance of their religious practices is important for all of them to feel welcome.

The following are some examples of exhibiting religious tolerance:
1. Respect
	Respect involves letting people of differing religions to practice or enact their lives in accordance with their beliefs within reason. What they can or cannot eat, what they believe, their traditions, and their preferences may be some examples of aspects of their lives affected by religion. 
This does not mean that one allows their neighbour to do as they wish because of their religion, however. The good of the community and following the law of the land is an important factor to consider in measuring what is acceptable and what is within reason.

2. Knowledge
	Ignorance about religions are often the reasons behind social or religous faux pas. Some individuals prefer to keep their beliefs private, or deem them not important enough to discuss beforehand. People are also used to the practices within their own religions, so any deviation is misconstrued as
deviant or wrong. It doesn't hurt to ask and be informed!

3. Keep an open mind. Accept.
	Opinions differ. This is true not just for religions, but for a wide range of things. That's okay! We don't need to have exactly the same opinions and beliefs to live peacefully and comfortably with our neighbours. Acknowledge and accept differences within reason!
</body>
</html>

